In mordern society , students always face the dillemma that which one is more important between understanding ideas and learning facts .
This problem is the much debated one in that it affects everyone in their daily life .
Some people prefer the first one to another and others have on opinions about it .
Before rending my opinion , i think it is necessary to take a galance of the argurments from both the sides .

It si quite easy for average people to choose learning facts because the several obvious reasons that learning facts is more interesting , is easier and so on .
Although learning facts has some advantages , it also has many drawbacks such as you don not understand it deeply .
Therefore we have no complete evidence to suggest that learning facts is always better than unerstanding ideas .
What is more , the innate quality of understanding ideas , unfortunally , is ofter \ n underestimated ; in other words , if you notice the invisable benefits of understanding ideas , you can understand it more deeply .
Here I want to explain a few of the most important reasons .

It is the ability to think that is the first aspect of understanding ideas that people view profoundly .
To illustate this , there is an appropriate example that is very persuasive .
My parents are professors , so they usually teach me systematically to understand ideas and put this on the prist place since I was a kid .
As the times going on , I gradually become a person with ability to think .
And this is very useful to me because this ability makes me more creative .

Besides , the further reason why I advocate this is because that it is widely acknowledged that interesting is an indispensable part to the students ' studing and this issue is becoming a certain concern to many experts .
To me , I think understanding ideas is more interesting than learning facts .
They are more attractive and fascinating

Finally , I think understanding ideas is easier for students to understand .
Because facts could be differently in many conditions and they might influenced or change due to other factors .
In contrast , understaning ideas is more straight , is better for the students who don not have good intellecgence to learn .

Taking into all these factor in to accounts , we may safely arrive at the conclusion that understanding ideas is more important for students and it is more desire us to endeavor and we also could desire a special fulfillment and pleasure
