I agree with that it is more inportant for students to understand ideas and concepts than it is for them to learn facts .
Here are three reasons to support my agreement .

The first reason is that the idea is the most important one of everythings .
Only you know the main idea about it , you can think about more details and ask more questions .
Furthermore , the concepts are the main body of the lesson or something like that .
You should understand the concepts and after that you can learn other information .
For example , if a student ca n't understand the idea and concepts of the chapter at accouting class , he does n't know what this chapter talking about .
Then , he gain nothing on accouting class .
The worst thing is that he will fail the class .

The second reason is that understanding is more basic than learning .
You can learn something after your understanding .
For instance , in order to learn how to read , you should to understand what does reading mean .
It means you should see the words in the paper and say them .
Therefore , you must gain the idea and concepts of reading .
After understanding those , you can learn other things such as different kind of reading methods and how to read .
Moreover , when people are talking about reading , the first appear in your brain is the meaning of reading .
It is the basic one .

The third reason is that ideas and concepts are always put in the front of the book such as outline .
You can know what is the author mainly mention about in the book becuase of the ideas and concepts .
Then , you can read the book from first page to the end and learn the details and facts .
Generally speaking , it is normal when you read books and learn them .

On the whole , you ca n't learn the details and facts without having known about the ideas and concepts .
It is more important for students to understand ideas and concepts than it is for them to learn facts .
Sometimes , it is enough for them to know ideas and concepts .
There is no need to learn facts .
