I find it productive and rewarding to specialize on one subject because one is likely to progress better by staying focused on one area of thought .
Mathematicians like Andrew Wiles worked a huge amount of time to prove a single theorem , but he happened to solve one of the greatest enigmas of mathematics .
So devoting oneself completely to solve a problem or to structure a method may result in an effective , all-inclusive and creative solution or understanding .

However , specialization could also mean boredom or a waste of time .
Staying up all night pursuing the same goal over and over again may cause someone to live an empty life , even to lose focus of what they were looking for in the first place and thereby make many years ' work obsolete .
Many great thinkers got stuck in their own minds , thinking there was only one important thing in the world , like religion or fancy metaphysical entities , shutting themselves down from the rest of the world and , more importantly , from the opportunities of growth and understanding they had as human beings .
The mind has to flow and explore , take new chances , it is not contained in a box .
After all , there are many ideas and projects out there , endless possibilities of how to make a better world .
A wide range of abilities and knowledge of various subjects enriches people 's lives and opens their minds .
The only problem is that it is difficult to coordinate oneself to grow in each discipline , one can get easily distracted and it is hard to determine what requires one 's attention at what time .

Still , the statement could be wrongly put forward .
Going back to Wiles 's experience , he could not have proved the theorem without having a wider mathematical understanding , if he had n't looked in archives others ( more specialized mathematicians ) would have considered useless or out of the subject , if he had n't dared to try new methods whenever it was needed , Nowadays it is hard to think what it would be like to focus on only one discipline or science , since they are all related with each other , and with technology , in significant ways .
