It is such a hard thing to predict whether in twenty years there will be fewer cars in use than there is today or not .
There are so many factors leading to the decrease in the number of cars .
Some of these factors are the ever increasing oil price , the scarcity of gasoline and the high cost of car maintenance .
However , there are other factors promoting the use of cars and thus will result in more number of cars in the future .
In my opinion , I think that the number of cars wo n't decrease .
In fact , I think that there will be more cars in the future , than there are today .

One reason that may lead to the increase in the number of cars used , is the increasing number in population .
The number of people is increasing world wide , and lots of countries are having population control problem .
So , the more people there is , the more the need for cars and transport services .

Another reason is the advancement in Science .
Scientists are finding new energy sources that are abundant , less pollutant and cheap .
Having a cheap energy source decreases the running cost of owning a car , and thus encourages more people to purchase and own cars .
Moreover , having this source as clean and not a pollutant for the air or the environment will make it easier in terms of regulations to obtain a car .

Last but not least , the advancement in technology is another key reason .
Advancement in technology will increase the number of cars significantly .
With technology advancing , car manufacturers are able to lower their cost of production for cars .
Thus , it will be possible to produce cheaper cars in shorter periods of time .
Also , the advancement in technology makes it possible for governments to be able to build more bridges and to maintain healthy roads to accomodate more cars .

To sum up , Its like a supply and demand issue .
With the advancement in science and technology , resulting in increase in supply , and the increasing number of poplulation , resulting in increase in demand , owning a car will be easy and effective .
So , in Twenty years from now , there will be more cars in use than there are today .
