In my opinion , it is indeed more important for a student to grasp ideas and concepts than it is to simply learn all the relevant facts oz heart .
What use is the most encompassing accumlation of facts if you cannot employ them in a specific context , in other words in relation to a specific conceptual framework ?

Let us assume for instance that I would know in advance all the relevant facts , that is questions , topics and texts , important vovabularz that are being used in the TOEFL test ( which is of course impossible ) .
This would not necessarily help me to score high and be effective in my strategies for answering the single questions because these questions heavily rely on the concepts as well as the general context that the single reading passages , lectures and/or conversations elaborate as a whole .
Of course there are questions that pertain to specific details .
Yet these details cannot always stand for themselves and be seen independently , but are interwoven within the thematic frame of the text .

An example of this would be the word ` romanticist ' .
As a fact stated within a class on British poetry that term does not relate to topics of romance and the love between to people .
However , in another context such as an everyday conversation with my friends in a pub , me claiming to be a ` romanticist ' can very well indicate these things ( although in real life I would probably just use the adjective and say that I am ` romantic ' ) .

Also , and this would be another reason for my argument , facts can either change over time or simple be false depending from what source they come from .
For instance , it has become a well-known fact that the information that is provided by Internet sites such as the online encyclopedia ` Wikipedia ' must not be seen as reliable and 100 % correct because anyone can contribute to its database .

To sum up , although it is important to pay attention to all the facts and details that are being presented one also has to be extremely careful and attentive when it comes to putting these facts into pragmmatic use .
Also , one constantlz has to be aware of the fact ( no pun intended ) where the information one is using is coming from .
Because as several examples from history and politics have shown misinformation and the abuse of power can be used to manipulate people 's opinions or to justify certain military operations .
