To express my opinion about this subject , i must say that , this statement is very unclear .
I will agress with this statement , when the young people are living in an individual society .
On the other hand , i will not agree with it , when the same segment of poeple are living in a collective society .

Our cultures are very different also our imagination of the morals .
Each culture has another family system funcionality .
And as a result ; the attitude to the family will be the same like for the communities .

For the explanition : the individual Socity ; is this one who prefer that each member of the socity should have a near degree of the absoult freedom doing the things in that way , which he thinks it is the right one .
The young people in this kind of society do n't give enough time helping their coummunities , especially the old people , for example i live here in Germany and it normal to hear that somebody is found dead in his flat , - but firts six month after his death - .
it means that nobody from his neighbourwood had noticed it at all ; that this man could n't be seen such long time .
More and more , the young people are very busy with therselves .
thy must achieve everything alone and for that , nobody else should participate with them even in their time .

On the other side : there is another type of society , which called the collective one .
In this one `` for example in arabic or asian countries '' the young people stand beside to help their communities .
It depend on the value of doing the things together .
The acceptance that the members in such societies could do what they want to do , is not there .
Each member should do the same thing in the same situation , because they are acting and living together .

At the end , i can say generally that the culture differences nowadys are going smaller in direction of an individual society .
So that , i do agree that the young people more and more are tendencelly not giving enough time to help their communities .
