On the world market more and more new inventions and trends are available .
There are some people who like to follow new trends and others who prefer to stick to more traditional things .
Both sides of the question offer advantages and disadvantages .

Some people are more afraid of uncertainty , that means they like to do , use or talk about things they already know in order to be sure about the outcomings .
They do not like an unknown situation with unpredicable outcomings .
This behaviour can be positive as no or only predicable risks are taken , but also a bit boring as there are little changes .

The other group of people is more willing to take risks and try new and unknown things in order to improve their living situation and to be more successful .
This kind of living behavior can bring a lot of advantages .
First , you cannot really proceed in your life if you do not give new things a chance .
There must be room for inventions , otherwise it will be hard to keep path with your social environment .
To underline my opinion , the example of a mobile phone is used .
When it was first launched , many people were sceptical about this invention .
Those who were open enough to try it , had the risk about spending too much money as they choose the first and only tariff which was higher than other suppliers , but they were connected to the world .
Another example is the internet .
It changed the whole world and people belonging to the group not willing to try new things have disadvantages .
They are somehow disconnected from the rest of the world .
In a business environment companies without the internet could not be successful and could not survive .
Second , people trying new things can have more fun and changes in their lifes .
As they are open to new things they have the opportunity to discover so much more than the other group and find more opportunities to be even more successful .

Being careful about new things is important , but not adapting to any changes can be harmfull as well .
In my opinion , everyone should somehow listen to an inner voice about how far one would go and how many risks one would take .
But not moving and always keeping to old things cannot improve a persons life .
Therefore , to put it in a nutshell , eveyone should try to keep path with its social environment in order to be successful , but not taking any risks one is not ready for .
