In my opinion , it is more imnportant for a person to have as much extensive knowledge of a variety of academic subjects as he or she can because of two good reasons .
Firstly , it could be considered to him and others as his bachkground knowledge and experience of life .
Secondly , some knowledge of everything is preferable that one might someday be in need of the use of that type of knowledge , and employ it in his or her own life .
On the other hand , being epecialized in only one subject and forget about knowing a little from and a little from therer might make someone ignorant when he or she is exposed to situationms where he or she is required to make a response to a general knowledge stimulus .

One 's life is not limited only to books and what he or she is specialized in .
In my society , when people gather at a party or any similar occasion , they do not just sit there .
They talk about any topic that might interest their lives or thinking .
For example , during my brother 's wedding last week , people has discussed the impact of terreorist people on tourism in the Middle East .
I was personally astonished to know from common people that the number of visiting France is double the number that visits the Middle East every year .
What puzzled me more , is the source of the information .
Another important issue here is that we should not limit our knowledge to books because what is ion book is mostly hypothetical , and what we need in our life is some kind of knowledge that can be practical and benefitial .

So , do we sometimes need to use that general knowledge we have ?
The answer to thgis question might lie when any of us face a problem and think of a solution .
Provided our knowledge is limited , we may not be able to find a solution to that problem ; If the problem requires some knowledge of physical laws , or some chemical background .
We do not need to be specialized in one field and when we have a small problm ask for help .
thus , our general knowledge of different subjects definitely helps us to avoid every day trouble or have suggested soultions to problems that need a specialist .
