Whether or not young people enjoy life more than older people do is an interesting question , and I for one disagree with that statement .
First and foremost one has to understand that enjoying oneself does not necessarily have to mean enjoying similar things .
With that in mind , it becomes clear that older people do not necessarily enjoy life less than young people do .

First , let 's look at two different rather popular activities for both , the young and the old .
How about sports - sports is a rather popular pasttime activity for the younger generation .
But it 's also an important part of older people 's lifes , a point that is supported by the fact that certain activities that have fascinated the older generation first but have now moved on to include the younger generation as well ( without of course losing any importance to the older generation , it 's like a side-by-side activity ) do exist .
Sports can therefore be enjoyed by both , the young and the old , and does not leave anyone behind .
If you do n't feel like jumping down a cliff into the ocean then do n't - there 's other activities like running , iceskating or , the one I referred to above to illustrate an activity moving down the generational ladder rather than up : nordic walking .

And what about a very different pasttime activity that both , the yound and the old enjoy : going out and enjoying oneself with friends .
While the youth has bars , pubs and clubs to enjoy itself , the older generation usually prefers locations with less noise and more atmosphere , yet not necessarily less fun .
If one enjoys a nice restaurant or a dance then age does n't really matter - a 90-year old can enjoy himself next to a 30-year old and both will be having a blast .

Yet another point I would like to make is money and time .
It 's a known fact that older people , especially retirees , statistically have more money to spend than younger people , who might have to support an entire family of four or more on one single income , do .
And unfortunately , in our society money equals fun .
A very good example is travelling , which in our society is just another word for seemingly endless enjoyment all over the world .
Travelling is quite expensive though , a family of four will not be able to afford a Carribean cruise on a ship , nor will it have time or money for an extended cruise or travels that last longer than a week or two .
With more time on their hands older people can usually sit back and relax , enjoy their free time in foreign countries or even at home with their friends .

Which , as my final point , is what I think the most important factor of enjoying oneself .
Friends are the salt in the soup , and while older people do n't tend to have more friends than the younger generation ( true , I do n't have any hard evidence to support this , but it has been my general observation in my immediate environment ) , they usually tend to have closer friends that they have known for decades .
Sharing ones life with a life partner or a good friend is what makes life worth living to some people , and in order to do that age does n't matter - attitude matters .

I think I have made my point clear that I do not think that younger people enjoy life more than older people do .
From the outside and from a rather superficial point of view this might seem to be the case , given that according to the media - which unfortunately is made mostly for young people - only young people seem to enjoy life on TV and in the movies .
It 's a certain stereotype that the movie industry has been presenting us for many years and it seems to have attached itself to our society where age equals boredom and loneliness .
Personally I think that if I had a time machine and would be able to look at a 20 years older me I would discover , that the older me would still be having fun in life and enjoying itself just as the young me does right now .
