After pondering this question thoroughly and prudently , I finally reach the point that it depends .
If a student wants to go directly into the workforce after graduation , it 's may better for him to have broad knowledge of many academic subjects .
On the other hand , if another student wants to become a specialist in a given domain , I think he 'd better specialize in that one specific subject .

Nowadays the number of college students who hunt for a job just after graduation keeps increasing .
Mainly because they are aware of that different job require different knowledge or skills .
Some jobs require a student can use a computer fluently and skillful , some may hope a student to be capable to speak different kind of lauguages , and some others may just use those whose have the intensive ability of coorporation and sccialization .
To mee to various requirement of jobs , students should have broad knowledge of many academic subjects .
Take my sister for example .
Before graduation , she did n't know what job exactly she wanted to pursue .
But since she had broad knowledge gained from many subjects in college .
She sent innumerable applications to very diverse companys .
Guess what ?
All of those companys said OK to her .
And then she could choose the best one from them .

But if a student , like me , dreams of becoming a specialist or even a scientist in a certain realm , he should and must specialize in that one specific subject .
The foremost reason why I said that is , only this way , can a student make great consentrate on that one subject and learn more about it .
Like me , I always think I will becom a specialist in EE , so , now I put all of my focus and energy on that subject .
By doing more research and reading more refference book of that subject , I obtained a profound understanding about it .
Although I ca n't assert that I am a master today in EE , I have took the most significant step to be a master I think .

Taking into account of all that mentioned above , I draw the conclution that this question depends .
