I disagree with the statement that there will be fewer cars in use in twenty years from now than there are today .
My answer hugely depends on the country about which we are talking about .
In a developing country or an under developed country , the number of cars increase day by day .
As the development takes place in these regions , more business activity will follow and make the people richer .
As a result of this they will depend on the cars as a means of transport rather than on public transport .

This fact is evident from the countries like India and China where the number of cars on a road are increasing day by day , challenging the infrastructure of these countries .
As the economy of a country develops .
more people would prefer to have a convenient means of transport at their disposal instead of running for the public transport .

We can argue that two wheelers might increase in these countries in place of the cars , but car would always be a safer means of transport than a two wheeler .
So people would prefer cars to two wheelers when they have enough money .

But in countries such as US , UK , Australia which come under the developed countries category , there can be a fall in the number of cars in the future but I 'm not certain .
As the number of cars is already more in these countries , people might be looking at some other means of transport which is more comfortable than a car .
The air network is so developed in these countries that people prefer to travel by air rather than take a car when they have to travel long distances .

Whether it be a developed or an under-developed country , the number of cars will always increase provided that the infrastructure keeps up with the increasing number of cars on roads .
So the main thing is the infrastructure development ie the roads , bridges etc .
Increasing usage of cars also means that the world major car manufacturing companies can look forward to expanding their business and providing employment opportunities to many people .

So , the number of cars are set to increase in the future as the economies around the world continue to improve .
