Some people believe that it is more important for students to understand ideas and concepts , while others believe that it is more important for students to learn facts .
I maintain the opinion that both the ability to understand ideas and concepts and the ability to learn facts are equally important in the study of a student .

The ability to understand ideas and concepts and the ability to learn facts are mutually benificial .
On the one hand , understanding ideas and concepts will help students to learn facts faster and better .
For example , if a student of psychology understands the concept of behavior modification , he/she will be able to learn the facts that associate with how a elimentary school child behaves in class and how this child changes his/her behaviors better and faster .
Also , it is unlikely that this psychology student will forget these facts once he/she understands this concept .
On the other hand , learning facts will provide students with evidences that support their understanding of ideas and concepts .
In other words , ideas and concepts will be supported by the facts that students learn .
For instance , a student of history will be more likely to understand the concept of Westward Movement when he/she remembers that conflicts between the white settlers and Indians , the spread of America 's land , and the social , political , and economic changes during that particular time period of history .

The ability to understand ideas and concepts and the ability to learn facts are mutually dependent .
A good student needs to both understand ideas and concepts and learn facts .
A student who can only understand ideas and concept without learning the facts will find the ideas and concepts dry and boring without being able to explain events in the real world .
The process of learning will thus become mechanical recitation of theories without knowing how they work in practical applications .
A student who can only learn facts will find himself/herself lost in the plethora of facts without being able to make sense of the apparently unrelated facts .
The process of learning will in turn become isolated parts that do not form a illstrative whole .
Thus , any student who can only master one ability among the two will find himself/herself crippled in his/her studies , and it is unlikely that he/she will do well in hes/her studies in the academic area .
In history , any great scientific and academic advancement is built upon the premises of both theoretical ideas and concepts and facts based on practical application of theories , and the successful combination of both results in so many instances of intellectual progress in history .
Without either one of these two abilities , the world we live in and our perception of the world will be very limited .

To sum up , it is equally important for students to understand ideas and concepts and to learn facts .
A mastery of both abilities will enable students to witness greater achievements in their studies .
