I agree with the statement that it is better for a person to have a broad knowledge of many academic subjects rather than to specialize in one specific subject .

Specialization can be a good thing in life , it helps a person to be good at what he does and be effecient in his work .
However , sometimes if a person chooses to take many academic subjects , it gets interesting .
Lets say for example , a person takes biology , history and phsycology .
All this knowledge is a great advantage !
It leads the person to be more knowledgable , more aware of lots of things and also gives a sense of fun .
Your mind expands and gets different and interesting information each day from different topics .

Knowledge is a bunch of facts that you accquire from experiences and everyday routines .
knowledge on one thing makes life boring especially for a person who is always curious and wants to learn new things .
knowledge is unlimited , you have access to it anytime and anywhere .
I could choose to know everything about one certain topic but that limits my knowledge to that one topic .
But how about knowing information about different topics ?
this makes you even more social with different type of people .
A doctor who knows history gets people astonished .
They begin to understand the fact that he is good at what he does but also has interest for many other things .

In high school , i 've always chosen different electives like music , french and also computer lessons .
I wanted to know more about each or even be good at them like in my major subject .
It made me feel wise and able to talk to people about alot of subjects .
I could argue and talk in different areas with different types of people , it gives a good impression and also makes my life interesting to learn new stuff and facts everyday .
That explains why actors now are persuing careers in singing or being leaders of charity acts or organizations .
They want to try more .

It 's better to have a broad knowledge of many academic subjects .
To learn different facts everyday gives color to the mind .
Life is short as they say , so make use of it .
